From the Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
Well, very pleasant. Good morning to you and welcome back to Part 2 of our show today.
And we have the honor of talking with a fine gentleman up on the West Coast, up in the Northwest area, Dr. Ray Peat.
Ray Peat has been involved in the healing world for just a very long time,
way back in the early 80s and doing work with progesterone and hormones.
He has a PhD in nutrition. Just a wonderful website is RayPeat.com.
He has all kinds of articles. He has a forum that you can get involved in.
And very, very well researched. We have a lot of respect for him.
He talked about the regenerative processes on an evolutionary perspective.
And then his work with hormones had just been kind of, you know, the real deal.
Dr. Ray Peat, good morning to you, sir. Thanks for coming on our show.
Good morning.
Yeah, nice to have you here.
We just talked to a doc, kind of a very natural guy, and he does blood work, you know, and he looks at different blood.
He did it before and after being with people who had been vaxxed.
And, you know, he actually, he never was much of the idea of shedding, but he actually could tell some different energy released in the blood for some people who were around vaccinated people.
And I'm wondering, from your perspective, if simply the energetics on a spiritual level or the fear or something like that could create things that we could see in a microscope on blood?
Wouldn't it have to be some kind of a physical thing being transferred?
We're all emitting pheromones or chemical transmitters on the emotional level.
Sex attractants, for example, are probably fear signals.
Fear signals.
The whole country, under the propaganda about the pandemic, I would imagine the fear chemical signals are very concentrated.
So there's a wide variety of results that these fear things could have, even we could pick up from somebody else?
Definitely. They've been studied a lot in insects to use as bait and to use with insecticides, basically.
But they found out that a single molecule acts as a radio transmitter, apparently, because when the pheromone molecules, say, from a female insect, are covering a space of hundreds of yards or even miles,
the molecules can't be any closer together than, say, maybe a meter between molecules.
And there's no way you could tell directionality from just running into the occasional molecule.
There would be nothing you could define easily as a gradient.
So they think the sensor cells are tuned like an antenna to receive the signals.
Every molecule is absorbing infrared energy and emitting more or less the same type of energy with some modification.
The signals are complex enough to carry information.
The shape of the antenna of the insect, if you've looked at them up close, a moth has this branched, sort of fern-like, sword-shape with side branches.
Those seem to be what are tuned to the direction of the electromagnetic signal.
Humans don't have that extreme sensitivity, but we do have nerve receptors in the olfactory system that definitely connect to our motivational and hormonal system.
So like in the case of a bee or something, the bee would get into fear over something,
and they would put out molecules for the other bees to know that you don't want to go over there, and that's how they communicate.
So these molecules are actually physical, even though the fear may be more of an invisible mental or spiritual thing for the bee?
Yes, they could be transmitting signals from bee to bee, because when a bee gets back to the hive with new information, they get together and dance in a certain way.
They've determined that somehow they're transmitting information during that dance, and that includes very detailed spatial directions, exactly how far to go in exactly what direction.
It's a matter of judgment that the bees that are receiving the information have to believe that it makes sense.
They don't always take a message for a fact.
For example, experimenters put the honey bait at different locations and found that the scout bees would give an accurate description of it.
In some cases, they put it on the opposite side of the lake, and the bees would be okay with crossing the lake in the right direction to find the honey.
But they then put the honey on a rowboat out in the middle of the lake, and the bee found that and went back and reported it, and the hive bees just wouldn't leave it.
They wouldn't leave it. Wow.
Some people speculate that the idea of organic honey probably is pretty true. I think they have standards in New Zealand. I think you have to have no chemicals within five miles or something.
But would it be possible that most honey would be organic because the bees are smart enough not to eat from chemical plant stuff?
No, they can be tricked and poisoned.
They can be tricked and poisoned.
Back to the shedding, this idea that we could transfer maybe some kind of toxic material or some toxic energy from somebody who has been injected with these things.
So this could go on energetically with people depending on what they believe or don't believe about the person or the potential of doing this?
I think like bees, we are somewhat intelligent about how we interpret the message.
The information?
Yeah. And the Pfizer researchers in their manual to the people doing the testing before it was approved warned not to let the vaccinated people be in close contact with pregnant or breastfeeding women.
Really?
They understood that the damage could be communicated from the vaccinated person if they were in close contact.
But these are kind of science, if it's not physical it doesn't exist, but they understand the energetics of this stuff obviously, right?
They must.
Generally when you say energetic, biologists stop being scientific.
There has been lots and lots of research for more than 100 years demonstrating radiant communication, ultraviolet and infrared wavelength communication,
many different kinds of energy, magnetic as well as electromagnetic.
And still it's a very unpopular area of research. Scientists could ruin his career trying to publish something on it.
Yeah. So you get out there in Wee Woo land, La La land, and most of the scientists they get frightened, they don't want to mess with it.
Yeah. In 1968 when I visited some researchers in Russia, one of them gave me a reading list that included some extremely important electromagnetic studies that show a more or less steady magnetic field can be produced.
A magnetic field can communicate so that just the seepage of water through the ground creates enough current that there's a detectable or a sensible magnetic field that water dowsers can use.
To find out where the water is.
Yeah. And that's been tested by burying wires and then running very weak currents through the wire.
So I guess it could be conjectured then all species in a sense are communicating with all other species pretty much all the time.
Oh yeah. If a molecule can emit a meaningful directional attractive signal, then the whole animal is emitting similar amounts of energy.
So it's such a small amount of energy that the standard science doctrines about what an organism is, what a cell is, just say that that's not possible.
Random signals would overwhelm it so that you don't have any possibility of sorting out the signal.
The sorting and detecting processes are not following the standard biological dogma about how information is transmitted.
So as you said, all various ways of magnetic, electromagnetic, telepathically, we're just communicating all the time with all things. We must.
Yeah. Did you ever hear of Andrea Puharich or Henry Puharich?
No. Puharich? No.
He was doing military and CIA research in telepathy.
Wow.
And wrote a couple of very interesting books clearly demonstrating the extra-sensory communication.
And I think there's plenty of evidence to suggest that people who are in fear of something, like a snake or something, and they're really afraid can have experiences with them.
I mean, there's no accidents, right, with that kind of thing.
Or really want to hurt some kind of species and not have a good experience with it.
You know, we live out here in Dripping Spring, out in the country, 25 years, and there's a share of snakes around here.
But I've always kind of talked to them, Doc, and said, "I don't want to hurt you." And I do. I don't ever want to hurt them.
And you just do whatever you want and we'll just get along.
And I think I've seen one snake in 25 years, just even seen one.
I just don't see them.
When I worked in the woods, usually there were two or three of us, about 100 yards apart, crisscrossing the woods.
And the people on my group, in a typical day, would see one or two rattlesnakes.
And during all of the seasons, all of the summers that I worked in the woods, I never saw one.
You never saw one. You never saw one.
So you just had this internal kind of feeling. How did you relate to them?
Did you even think about relating to them before that or not relating to them?
No. But growing up on the desert, I had seen a lot of close-up snakes.
So you know you didn't have any snake experiences, right?
Yeah. When I was three, my family was walking around in a brushy part of the Southern California desert.
And my brother started through a little hole in the brush and backed up and said, "There's a snake in there."
And that was the only way through the thicket of brush.
And I said, "Here's a handful of sand thrown in its eyes."
It worked. It turns out that experienced snake handlers use that trick because the nictitating membrane,
the third eyelid, reflexively closes when they feel sand hitting its face.
And so they just close their eyes and leave the area.
They couldn't strike because they had their eyes closed.
They had their eyes closed. And they just leave. They say, "Let's leave here."
Before we take questions and a break, I want to ask you your opinion.
I was listening to, I think, National Public Radio.
And you know, enough said about what their motives may be for these kind of things.
But they did a whole story on how genetics is going to be the thing, right?
This is what they really are beginning to push aside.
"We have genetics. And if we can control the genes, then we can control disease. And life will be better."
And they had a story about a woman who had some kind of stomach cancer gene.
And she actually chose to take out her entire stomach so she wouldn't get stomach cancer.
Right.
To do what to her stomach?
She took out her entire stomach so she wouldn't get stomach cancer because she had this alleged stomach cancer gene.
Oh, yeah.
Right. Oh, yeah.
So, what's your opinion of this genetic stuff? Is there anything, there's nothing to this, is there really?
This substance?
Much, much less than they are claiming.
All of their claims and experiments go wrong and do untold harm rather than any slight benefit.
If you insert a gene, take out a bad gene or put in a good one.
So, yeah, it changes the whole system unpredictably.
The cell doesn't operate in a reductionist way.
You've upset the whole nature of the being when you change just one part of the DNA.
And there are different genes.
There was this famous movie star who had her breast taken off because she had the breast cancer gene, that thing, kind of thing.
What would it be an indication of? Do you suspect we all have these genes?
Have you looked hard closely enough?
Yeah, that gene, also they recommend taking out the uterus as well as the breast.
Wow.
But it can cause other tissues to be unstable.
So you can remove everything that could possibly be unstable and develop into cancer.
Then some other factors are going to be noticing that your body is all fragmented and just taking off some part of your body has unpredictable effects.
Sure. And then why would these little snips even be in some people and not others?
Could it be things from mom and dad or grandpa or grandpa that are just kind of still hanging around?
Yeah.
The habits of the family are charitable.
Eating rituals, the popular foods, national foods, so that given families will sometimes be eating the same meal generation after generation.
But it's in no way an indicator of something that you're going to get, right?
Yeah, not in a very predictable way.
Yeah. Would it be like in the case of this stomach or breast cancer, could that be used to maybe, I don't know, for any benefit knowing that whatsoever?
That you had like a stomach or a breast cancer gene like this movie star had? I mean, does it mean anything?
No, it might mean that you have a special sensitivity to certain things in the environment.
The fact that the disease caused by a gene typically takes many years to develop, like a person in their 30s is advised to have their breasts and uterus removed.
And that's what has been happening in all of these 20 or 30 years with no cancer.
So if you see that you have a gene that they incriminate, all you have to do is change your diet, avoid polyunsaturated fats, maybe use aspirin.
You can identify the pathways leading from the gene to the cancer and along that pathway during the decades when you don't have the cancer, there are all sorts of things you can do to change the way you develop.
Interesting. Yeah. It's a very positive way to look at it, like something really kind of good.
Yeah, we're always modifying our development, either deepening the rat we're in or periodically.
Or getting out of it, right? Yeah.
So that's a good argument for many cases to let things be and let the body heal, because isn't that, Dr. Peat, what it wants to do is heal? It's always trying to get back in the balance?
Yeah, sometimes the rabbit's so deep, you're not trying very hard.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well said. Dr. Ray Peat is with us. Stay right there, sir.
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. We have a lot of great, interesting emails and we're going to get to them all and we're going to do it after this little word from a couple people that we promote.
Previously with Brandon Amelani of Shan Blossom talking about our very special ginseng.
And you don't want something that's been corrupted coming into your body, like the ginseng is a super important example of that.
You know, when you're using aggressive alcohols and solvents, it has a strange effect with ginseng in the sense that when you're not only over processing it, but putting it in really aggressive alcohols,
what's going to happen is that you're going to flip the chemistry on some of the androgenic.
Naturally, it's androgenic. It's going to basically protect the telomeres and add life to the body and protect the genetic replication of the cells.
But it's also going to boost the androgens and boost the male hormones in the body.
But if you incubate it in a really aggressive alcohol, it flips those to become estrogenic.
Now, estrogens, phytoestrogens are not necessarily bad in balance, but you really don't want that with your ginseng,
especially if you're getting like a really high quality, a really old root, something that's very special.
You want to treat it with care and make sure it's delivering what ginseng has to offer.
Just a short clip from Brandon talking about the way they do the ginseng, just to give you a better idea of where this company is coming from, the quality and the ethics.
Brandon and the Shen Blossom link on oneradionetwork.com.
And this little device also from Mr. Oops, I don't want to do that. This also from I think I can do it here.
I had it. No, the blue shield. I had it here and then I lost it. Hold on a second. Let me find it.
Brandon does Shen Blossom and he have a wonderful website. Go on Shen Blossom through oneradionetwork.com if you care to.
And just check it out and see what they have for you. Hoshu Wu, medicinal mushrooms, some great protein, protein powders.
Some of the main ingredients in those are bamboo. Have you ever seen bamboo?
Other than we take a better choice perhaps than a, you know, than maybe whey or something might be easier to digest.
And then he does this also, this line called Blue Shield. Listen.
We're talking with Brandon Amelani and he is the man who brings us the Blue Shield technology to keep us all those little EMFs from doing harm to our body.
Mr. Brandon, the Blue Shield is a really beautiful little cube, right? That's the main product. And how does this work?
Well, the cube essentially sends out signals into the environment that entrain the body.
So the body is affected by all these electromagnetic fields in the environment.
And when Blue Shield is introduced into the environment, the body starts sympathetically resonating with it.
And what we found over 30 years of development is that the body prefers the algorithm, the frequency range, the randomization of frequencies that are exposed into the environment.
And the body stops attacking EMF or perceiving the EMF as a threat.
And what this does is it normalizes white blood cell count. And it also starts to reduce inflammation markers from the body trying to attack the EMF.
So essentially what's happening is the body is basically renormalizing and reallocating immune power to the body.
And it makes the body stronger and more well regulated.
Good job, Brandon. That's an excellent explanation of how this technology works.
It's called the cube, the Blue Shield. See the ad on the front page. Use promo code OneRadio for a 10% discount.
Get yourself one. Take care of the whole house. That's Blue Shield right on the front page of OneRadioNetwork.com.
Indeed, they're really nice and they go to about 90 yards.
And you know, you'll take care of the dogs out in the backyard too.
Help the dogs to withstand any kind of cell phone tower. So that's BlueShieldOneRadioNetwork.com.
On the third Monday of the month, we have the honor of talking to Dr. Ray Peat, a PhD in biology, University of Oregon, specializing in physiology.
He taught at the school, University of Oregon, Urbana College, Montana State University, National College of Naturopathic Medicine,
Universidad in Nevada, Cudanza, Universidad in, I cannot pronounce, in Mexico.
Wait a minute.
No, my audio streams aren't. Let's see.
Two audio streams going? Well, not really.
So, very interesting fellow that we have the honor of talking to, Dr. Ray Peat.
Dr. Peat, can you conjecture of the difference between what's being talked like and like you did in naturopathic school way back when and today?
Have they progressed a lot with their vision and awareness of natural healing, do you think?
No, I think the peak of naturopathic thinking was probably a little over a hundred years ago.
Wow.
And to gain acceptance, they have accepted a lot of conventional orthodox medical ideas.
They take the same basic courses and I think have underdeveloped the energetic understanding of the organism.
The holistic part has been submerged quite a bit by making themselves acceptable to the society that's trained to think in terms of drug curing disease.
I understand.
So, even like the Bastier Colleges, and I think that's one of the biggest ones, isn't it, Dr. Peat?
Naturopathic colleges, they've somehow got the energy of big pharma or conventional wisdom embedded in them over the years.
Yeah, just anyone growing up has it built deeply into them that sickness can often be cured by a very specific chemical.
The old homeopathic idea was largely a scientific holistic understanding that your defensive reactions, your immune system in the general sense,
that these need to be treated in a very intuitive holistic manner, looking at the whole organism rather than just the sickness.
The parts.
From a homeopathic standpoint, are there better ways and there must be the best ways to discern what is the most beneficial remedy for somebody?
I think a lot of it is intuition.
Intuition?
Yeah, some people just naturally, like a dog or a cat, can sometimes sense that a person is developing, for example, epilepsy.
A dog can sometimes warn its owner that they're about to experience an attack or detect the presence of a tumor and so on.
A good practitioner starts out with that general openness to who they're dealing with and works from there.
But you really have to get the right remedy, don't you, in general, to have some real benefit? Just the right remedy?
Yeah, but the right remedy, many different things.
When you're looking at the organism as a whole, you find that you can shift the internal balance by little bits of action in different directions.
Different people can use different herbs or minerals to achieve the same purpose of balance.
Interesting. So there's no magic bullet kind of thing for anything, right?
In general, yeah.
Okay, let's get some emails for you.
"When I press down on my foot," writes Robert, "on the skin on my feet or calves, it leaves an imprint very easily, and that imprint stays noticeable for a very long time.
Would you know what the cause of this might be? Even after holding the steering wheel in my car, there's a very significant mark.
Same thing happens when I press down on my fingertips. Skin doesn't bounce back."
So is that kind of like an edema thing going on?
In the case of the fingertips, older people, the tissues, there's more connective tissue than juicy, vigorous cells in any part of the body.
Probably the organism is drying up. If you start with a fertilized ovum with about a 92% water content,
if you follow all the way through to old age of newly formed tissue, at 92%, with maturation, you're getting drier and drier.
With aging, there's a continuous dryness of the tissues, so it's literally a degree of dehydration.
There just isn't the trigger pressure of your tissues to push your skin figure back into position. It takes longer.
With an animal, if you pull up a piece of skin on the back of the animal, same thing as a dent in your finger that doesn't spring back right away,
you pull up a flab of tissue on its back, a young animal, skin pops right back into place.
On the old animal, a piece of skin takes maybe 10 seconds to work its way back into place.
So it's this idea of what's called aging is a dryness.
Yeah.
Dryness kind of a, in Ayurveda, I think it's more of a vata, V-A-T-A, it's a dry, right?
Dryness kind of things in elderly. So then that would be, would that be a recommendation then for more water on oil?
No, that really doesn't help anything. The factor that regulates the water content is partly the ratio of connective tissues and the type of connective tissue.
As the glycoprotein content decreases, the tissue has less water.
If you got too much glycoprotein, as in hypothyroidism, that causes edema, and that causes a different type of,
a persistent pressure will squeeze the water out of the tissue.
And if it takes a long time to come back, that's partly because you've worked the water out of the glycoproteins that tend to make the tissue plump.
Hypothyroid skin tends to look young and plump, but it's because it's being retained in this soggy connective tissue.
It's a different shift that causes the continuing dehydration with age.
So the normal plumpness, you have to energize them and accelerate the renewal process without developing tumors.
A tumor, a fast-growing tumor, is very wet, returns to about 90% of water content.
So you don't want to just mindlessly increase the wetness.
You have to do it in a deliberate, organized way, raising the energy back to, say, when you're 25 years old, you've got lots of energy.
You've got both the right amount of glycoprotein relative to collagen to create a connective tissue moisture, but lots of ATP being formed in cells to renew the cells and to renew them at a proper hydration state.
So then how do we energize the cells and what are the sources of glycoproteins?
Good energy is what makes the right amount of glycoprotein.
Good energy to achieve, or the prana, or whatever you want to call it.
Yes, and estrogen has the cell-renewing effect, but you have to be very cautious with the effects of estrogen because it will hydrate the cell very quickly and cause it to start growing.
But that has to be under the control of differentiating things like progesterone and thyroid with proper oxidation.
What's missing with estrogen is oxidative energy.
In the skin, if you're deficient in vitamin A, estrogen dominates and will create sort of a dandruff condition.
When vitamin A is adequate, it suppresses estrogen and increases the renewal and maintenance of cells in the moist state.
Under estrogen, you get moistness but thinning of the actual vital skin.
It prematurely turns to the keratinized layer.
The same thing in your mouth.
When you are vitamin A deficient, the keratinization makes little white lumps on the cervix of the uterus.
It's the same thing with leukoplatia from overgrowth of the superficial keratinized cells.
If you get your vitamin A up, the skin becomes thicker and renewing itself at a better rate but staying vital and functioning in a multicellular layer instead of prematurely reaching that dry keratinized state.
What are some high vitamin A foods and do you ever recommend supplementing with vitamin A?
If you're deficient in vitamin A, you can see very quick effects.
Every time I had cavities filled when I was 11, 16, 29, something like that, each time I developed leukoplatia on my cheeks.
By the third time, I had identified that as the vitamin A deficiency from the radiation.
I found that it totally cleared it up in about three days to supplement a lot of vitamin A.
Knowing the similarity of mouth leukoplatia to cervical leukoplatia, I told many women about that effect.
They had been diagnosed as having a precancerous condition that required colonization or other surgery.
But just using a supplement of vitamin A, the next time they went to the doctor, they had no abnormal tissue on their cervix.
And high vitamin A foods?
Eggs, liver, milk and cream.
Oh, our faves. Good stuff. That's interesting. Milk and cream and liver and eggs.
Dr. Peat mentioned on a recent show that he had experimented with a lower protein diet and eats oatmeal now.
Is this entirely due to health reasons, lower methylene, tryptamine, or existing, or is it because he anticipates hard time with food shortages and more expensive animal protein?
And also something like oatmeal would also be good to store in cases of shortages, I guess.
Yeah, for years and years I've been thinking of the pro-aging effect of methionine, cysteine, tryptophan.
The protein in meat.
And ultimately most of the other amino acids, if you limit your protein, you're going to drastically extend your average or expected lifetime.
That's interesting. So limit would be just depending on the individual, but having meat now and again as opposed to every day, that kind of an idea?
It has to suit your metabolic rate. With aging, the same thing that causes dehydration to develop, at the same time you're slowing your metabolic rate.
It's the energy production that retains moistness in the tissues, and that high metabolic rate is what you need the protein for.
And so as your metabolic rate slows, then you're more at risk of suffering from the toxic effects of too much methionine, cysteine.
I see. So if your thyroid was not functioning properly, that would be a clue that you could suffer from too much protein.
Yeah. And it just took me years to get around to actually trying that.
But within two or three days, I noticed my temperature rising, so I didn't need as much supplemented thyroid.
Oh, and your temperature was rising because? I kind of missed that part. Because you were eating the protein?
Eating more carbohydrates.
Oh, eating more carbohydrates, and your temperature was going up?
Yeah, without as much supplement.
Oh, interesting.
Question for Dr. Peat. My teen daughter gets severe acne before her period. She doesn't eat salads. She eats low PUFAs and already takes thyroid and Progest-E. What can we do to help her not have the acne for a period of time?
Thyroid is the main thing. The right amount of vitamin A to help keep the estrogen under control is very important. Getting enough carbohydrates.
And for her, getting off carbohydrates?
Yeah, fruit juices have anti-inflammatory things. The flavonoids are protective against the effects of estrogen.
James writes in, "I'm improving my health over time using your pro-metabolic principles. However, decades of being hypothyroid have caused me to look at the world through fear." How would you recommend breaking free from fear?
Surprisingly, progesterone and thyroid hormones can very quickly break a person out of that self-limiting fear.
If a person is having regular/irregular pulse and even transient ischemic attacks, is there anything that can be done to prevent a stroke?
I've had friends that were experiencing the transient ischemic attacks and their doctors were telling them to avoid vitamin K and foods that contain vitamin K.
I recommended that they have their actual vitamin K and clotting factors measured. Vitamin K can be measured as well as the clotting factors that it regulates.
There are two anti-clotting factors, protein C and protein S, that the liver produces under the influence of vitamin K. In a vitamin K deficient person, they are also deficient in those anti-clotting factors.
The people who ignored their doctor's diet recommendations to avoid vitamin K foods and to actually supplement vitamin K brought their proteins S and C back up to normal and stopped having the attacks.
Could you ask Dr. Peat about leaky capillaries? How can this be prevented in the elderly and what can be done to heal them?
Especially keeping your cortisol and estrogen levels low and under control. Pregnenolone and progesterone and a small amount of DHEA are the direct ways to toughen your capillaries.
That's where you talked about those two combo, pregnenolone and DHEA. That toughens them up a bit.
Yeah, and progesterone.
Oh, and the progeste.
Here's someone, Dr. Peat, who has an unusually high number of varicose veins, spider veins, young man, early 30s, doesn't eat any grains or processed food. What supplements or things could we do for this?
To start with, lots of carbohydrates, adequate amount of protein of high quality, milk and other vitamin A rich foods or supplement vitamin A.
So when you say lots of carbohydrates, that would be, what is that, fruit and either grains?
Yeah.
Potatoes? That's a starch, right?
Yeah, it's a good carbohydrate.
That's good.
Hi, Dr. Peat, what are your thoughts on the polyphenols in foods like blueberries? You speak highly of antioxidants and orange juice, but are the blueberries polyphenols also protecting or can be problematic?
No, in themselves the polyphenols are extremely beneficial, but with certain berries you unavoidably get the seeds and the seeds usually have some plant defensive chemical that produces inflammation.
So if you chew up the seeds of a berry or cook them, you extract some of these harmful factors from the seeds.
I see. This is from Thomas from Sweden. I wonder if it's okay to pressure cook the whites, those white button mushrooms or otherwise use a lid during the cooking process since I don't really have any good ventilation from removing those unhealthy things being released in the cooking process.
No, the pressure cooker has a pressure release so you get rid of the toxins in the air and should ventilate your kitchen while you're cooking.
And you like mushrooms because of, let's see, fiber, right? Kind of fiber?
Yeah, they're very good for fiber, but they contain antibiotics and anti-cancer agents.
Most all mushrooms?
Pretty much any kind of the edible mushroom.
Rachel writes in for Dr. Peat on this Monday, the 16th of May, we're live here. Could you please ask Dr. Peat what happens if Progest-E is not taken in sufficient quantity since it draws estrogen out of the tissues, will it cause a temporary estrogen dominance until it is cleared from the body and what happens if the liver is unable to detoxify it?
No, the progesterone detoxifies the estrogen in the cell. It inhibits aromatase production of estrogen, it inactivates estrogen receptors and it promotes the addition of glucuronic acid and sulfuric acid to the estrogen in the body.
It adds glucuronic acid to the estrogen molecule making it water soluble right in any cell where it's both experiencing estrogen excess and experiencing the effects of progesterone.
You have detoxified it before it even leaves the affected cells. Once it's detoxified and in the bloodstream, it has no estrogen effects and being water soluble leaves through the kidneys without further processing.
Dr. Peat, what could be going on, I don't know, big picture for humans or evolutionary wise, why a little bit of this progestease that you recommend just a dab is good? How did we create this situation? Can you theorize?
Oh, it's part of the reason that progesterone is associated with pregnancy is that it is a general protective hormone.
It opposes the weakening and inflaming effects of estrogen. The process of starting a new life starts with erasing all of the previous information of the apparent organism.
That's the function of estrogen is to use inflammation and stimulation of cell division to start with a fresh, clean slate.
After this period of erasing and starting over, then to proceed to produce a proper organism, you need to be flooded with progesterone.
A woman experiences a spike of estrogen for a day or two every month and after that has allowed an ovum to mature and be fertilized and implant,
then progesterone takes over with these about a thousand times more progesterone influence than estrogen when we start off on a new life.
During pregnancy, it's stabilizing against all kinds of stress, keeps the blood sugar steady, the oxygen steady, and the delivery of all of the nutrients is stabilized by adequate progesterone.
The pregnancy is the crucial time when absolute defense through progesterone is essential.
But at all other times, like in a man's brain during stress, progesterone is our basic protective anti-stress factor. All tissues in both sexes.
Boy, this whole idea of are we reacting to stressful situations, fear, anxious worry, it's just really no telling the effects on the body, is there? It's just pretty profound.
Yeah, stress has effects just like estrogen to erase our good functions and reduce things to the minimum.
Hans Selye tested different doses of estrogen and found that the shock stage of the stress reaction, when the maximum stress in effect was identical to the effects of a big dose of estrogen.
Wow, wow. What was his name, Hans? I've heard that name before.
Hans Selye.
Isn't that fascinating? Wow. Here's one for you. Dr. Peat recommends B6 for diarrhea. I've had mine for a year. Wow. Just ordered and got B6, 50 milligrams, no additional ingredients. Can you please tell me how to take it?
Oh, it's just one of the possible causes, but when a deficiency is the cause, you should see immediate correction of the problem, just one or two days with anywhere from maybe 20 to 50 milligrams.
And pretty quickly it'll get there.
Yeah, but sometimes aspirin is all it takes.
What are some of the main symptoms of, say, low, just in general B vitamins? What would be some of the symptoms somebody might look at and say, "Maybe I need some B vitamins"?
Oh, just about everything. Our whole energy and renewal system involves the B vitamins.
Do we need then animal protein for B vitamins?
No, plant sources are very good.
Okay. Dr. Peat, there are drugs for asthma that deal with LOX and leukotis. You know what I mean? They seem to work well. This makes me think LOX is more involved in asthma than COX. Do you know why this could be?
More than what?
More than LOX is more involved in asthma than COX.
I didn't hear the last word.
COX, COX, COX rather than LOX.
Not getting that, okay?
No.
Okay. Dr. Peat says there are drugs for asthma to deal with LOX and leukotrinins. Leukotrinins, L-E-U-K-O-T-R-I-N-S.
Oh, leukotriene.
Yeah, leukotriene. Sorry. That seems to work well. This makes me think that LOX is more involved in asthma than COX.
Oh, yeah, it is, but COX is the enzyme that makes prostaglandins, but the leukotrienes are probably the most potent things in asthma.
But reducing the substrate that you make leukotrienes and prostaglandins from, that's the essential fatty acids.
So keeping your essential fatty acids at a very minimum or deficient state is really essential to avoiding asthma.
Okay. This is from Constantine.
I believe many serious allergies that start in childhood are induced by vaccinations. I believe this is why I've had very serious allergies to milk protein since I was two.
If this is the case, do you think it's possible to get over this, which is often serious enough to warrant hospitalization?
And also, can someone take their dose of NTD once a day with a meal as opposed to synthetic T3, which is better to take spread throughout the day?
What was the first?
NTD. Nancy Dog Tom. NTD. I don't know what NTD is, do you?
No, I don't know.
So let's talk about the first part, these serious allergies. He says possibly the vaccinations. Can you get over these?
Yeah. Most kids grow out of a milk allergy, and the things that help you grow out of the allergy are keeping all inflammation lower, avoiding irritating foods, and keeping your digestive system active by keeping your thyroid low.
On the thyroid, does it make any sense to test temperatures other than the morning to see if Mr. Thyroid is functioning well?
Oh yeah. You should check it occasionally at different times of day, and there should be a curve rising after breakfast and peaking in the late afternoon and then falling during the night.
So peaking in 3, 4, 5, down 98.6 and then beginning to fall then again?
Yeah, it's okay to go to 99 or higher in the afternoon.
I see.
Trent says Brian Peskin stated that plant-based EFAs would saturate the cells with oxygen, preventing cancer. Based on Dr. Warburg's discovery, can I get Dr. Peat's opinion on this theory?
Using what?
Plant-based essential fatty acids would saturate the cells with oxygen.
No, no. They're exactly what is the main blockage to cell respiration and oxygen use.
So he's got that backwards.
Yeah, he's selling the idea of polyunsaturated.
Yeah, he has been pesking for years. Why are omega-3 fatty acids so bad with so many studies saying the opposite?
N-6 for about 40 years were absolutely the best thing according to all the studies except a few of them in which they increased deaths from heart attacks and cancer.
Except those studies.
It took 40 years to kill the doctrine of the healthful essential fatty acids.
And as they were disappearing, the Environmental Protection Agency told the fish processing companies to stop polluting the bay areas and land garbage dumps with all of their fish skin and waste fat.
And right at that time, suddenly with the discovery of N-6, proofed being carcinogenic and heart toxic, and the industry having a problem with the government telling them not to pollute the land with fish oil,
they discovered it was the greatest thing since the N-6 fats.
So it became an ideal health food.
And when did that start? How far back was that?
The EPA action I think was in the late 70s or 80s.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us. Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com. We're live here on the 16th.
Please pass on these links to everyone that you care about.
Thanks for your ongoing support with looking at some of the products that we promote.
And that's how we make our house payment when you make yours.
Here's a good one.
Yogis and fakirs say more CO2 is retained in a warm, dry climate. Is there any truth to this?
Yes, in the sense that water vapor makes you need to turn over your lung gas exchange faster.
So in a dry climate there's a little difference favoring CO2.
In a dry climate there would be a few.
But a high altitude is by far the best.
And you hear about the yogis going to a high mountain to meditate.
Yeah, right, right.
When we cook mushrooms for a long time they turn to rubber, our teeth bounce off of them.
Any way to prevent this?
Yeah, grinding the mushrooms.
Grinding them?
Yeah, food processor.
Oh, so you grind them up first? Oh, afterwards?
My favorite way to use them is mushroom soup.
If you grind them as fine as you can it makes the texture of the soup creamier and increases the flavor.
Also releases more of the beneficial materials.
That's pretty fun.
Hello Dr. Peat, thanks for coming on Patrick's show. I really enjoy it.
From Diane, my skin is turning yellow.
Huh, I think my liver is clogged up.
I did one liver flush a couple of weeks ago and passed quite a few stones.
That would be, I guess, with the olive oil.
I also bought a sauna from Patrick.
Well, that helped to detoxify.
I have edema in both legs.
From the knees down they even started weeping liquid.
Wow, so she's got a few things going on here.
Yellow and edema?
Yeah, having some blood tests is probably important.
What would she be looking for, Doc?
All of the liver enzymes would be very important to check.
TSH, to see how her thyroid is working.
Checking her body temperature.
Now, when we do, I guess she said she had stones coming up from her gallbladder.
That would be, I guess, the olive oil.
Does that work on the liver as well as the gallbladder?
You know, the olive oil thing they do?
No, it doesn't.
It doesn't?
It has a mild anti-inflammatory effect if you do it regularly.
But the medical standard for a long time was to use muscle relaxant like atropine or jimson
weed to relax the duct out of the gallbladder and then take olive oil to stimulate the contraction
of the gallbladder.
And the combination would let these stones pass through.
So you mean that's when you would drink, some people drink four ounces or something before
bed, that thing?
That idea?
Yeah, or at breakfast.
Or at breakfast, wow.
And there were people over the years who recommended doing a thing called something FOS before you
do it to relax.
Is that the same thing?
Do you know what I mean?
Something FOS, P-H-O-S, I think it was the ingredients in apples.
Where they want you to drink a whole bunch of apple juice before you did the flush.
Sometimes they recommend citrus juice, lemon juice, that's to get it out of your stomach
very quickly.
Yeah, when you do.
But is there something, what did you say, Doc, you do before the gallbladder flush that
is good to do to relax the muscles around the gallbladder?
The jimson weed.
It works like atropine, very similar chemical.
And that 50 to 100 years ago was recognized as very effective and safe, but the atropine,
partly because the drug culture used it for entertainment, it lost a lot of its medical
use.
Do you actually go online and buy jimson weed in like a tincture or something?
Yeah, just a piece of leaf the size of your thumbnail sometimes was enough.
You mean just a few days before you did the flush?
No, right at the same time as the olive oil.
Wow.
Have you ever done the olive oil thing flushed?
No.
No, you never did that.
So let's go back to this person, their liver being clogged up yellow, could that be liver
toxicity?
So you'd want to look at the liver enzymes you had recommended to her, right, and see
what's going on?
Yeah.
If the liver is actually getting blocked up, that requires usually something to make your
intestine more active and less inflamed, and usually a thyroid supplement goes with correcting
the liver enzyme excess.
Oh, the question we had on the thyroid, he wrote back and said, "NTD is natural desiccated
thyroid."
So let's see what he asked here.
Okay.
Let me see if I can find it here.
Oh, okay.
Also he said, "Can someone take their dose of natural desiccated thyroid once a day with
a meal as opposed to synthetic T3, which is better to take spread throughout the day?"
That was his question.
Yeah, the natural thyroid gland produces when it's digested both T4 and T3, but it contains
none of those as an actual ingredient.
They're produced by the digestive enzymes.
So taking it with food, there will be a gradual release of those things, so it doesn't hit
your liver, for example, as evidence that you're poisoned by an excess of something.
If you take too much T3, even 10 micrograms at once of pure T3 signals to your liver that
you're overdosed at that moment, and so your liver begins producing the enzyme to break
down the T3.
So if you do that regularly, the liver becomes very active in destroying T3.
That's why it's important to take little bits of it gradually during the day.
So you mentioned Sinoplus, and Jane said that she has some Sinoplus and would like to get
your help and idea how to move forward.
So Sinoplus, we get it from a Mexican pharmacy, right?
I think that's the only place you can get it, isn't it, right now?
Yeah, that's a synthetic.
With the balance of T4 to T3 that you get from the natural desiccated thyroid plant.
I see.
So that's why you like it, kind of, because it's a balanced T3, T4, what the body wants,
right?
Yeah, but it's present in the pill, so you still don't want to take your whole dose once
a day.
You should break it up into two or three parts.
So that little pill contains how many, they're small, I used to have some.
The Sinoplus pill contains 30 micrograms of T3 and 120 of T4.
120 of T4, I'm writing this down.
And 30 micro of T3.
It's pretty much equivalent to two and a half grains of old-fashioned armor.
Wow, 2.5 grains, that's a lot.
Well, no, it'd be 120, that's 180, right, milligrams.
So you'd have to figure out what you were taking on the regular and then kind of work
backwards, right?
Oh, yeah, never take more than, maximum would be a fourth of a Sinoplus, but better start
with an eighth of a tablet.
And then you would just do an eighth once a day and then work up a little bit to your
temperature is stable?
Yep, yep.
One of the emails that I get, probably two or three every day, is someone who has been
told maybe by their bodybuilder expert to take a whole tablet of Cytomel or even Sinoplus.
And the syndrome of intolerance to thyroid hormone, there's an epidemic of it right now.
Repeat that last part, please.
People telling me that they suffer from a syndrome of hypersensitivity or intolerance
to thyroid hormone because they've tried the absurdly high doses that so many people are
recommending.
So the body just doesn't take to it, just too much?
Yeah.
Wow, wow.
So what was the idea behind the bodybuilders?
I don't want to get people in the ideas.
Why would they possibly recommend that kind of thing?
Looking on the internet, if you look up Cytomel or Sinomel, you see all of these bodybuilding
people either selling it or recommending it.
Really?
Is that the same as Sinoplus?
Not quite so much.
Not so much, yeah.
Wow.
Yeah, this is way, way long.
Please, why don't you try to, Linda, try to shorten this down so I can get through it.
I just can't read the whole thing, I'm sorry.
Howie's read to take thyroid on an empty stomach so the food doesn't bind to the thyroid enzymes
and lose potency.
Is that true, Dr. Peat?
Are they writing?
They're asking you?
Yeah, it's true that pharmacists and doctors have been saying that now for more than 50
years.
But it's true that food slows the absorption, but that's exactly what you want.
That's what you want?
You want gradual absorption because that's most like the action of your body.
Oh, sure.
It's increasing a little bit every hour, but doctors and pharmacists are thinking in
terms of wanting to get, for example, a blood pressure drug or a painkiller drug, fully
working as fast as possible, and that's the only basis for taking it on an empty stomach
in the morning.
I see.
It's completely unphysiological for a hormone.
Unphysiological, that's great.
This is an interesting one.
Karen writes in, she's in Los Angeles, with all this talk about abortion and anti-abortion
and pro-life and pro-choice.
Does Dr. Peat have an opinion of when soul comes into the body?
That's a great question.
I like that one.
The soul in the Aristotelian tradition is the form creator.
The soul is necessarily present as the ovum starts turning into an organism.
The Aristotelian concept is that the soul is there creating the process.
So do you kind of go along with that one, best you can tell?
As far as I can tell.
They talk about life.
It's very interesting.
The sperm has life, and the ovum has life.
From a spiritual perspective, it never really started, it always was, kind of.
Yeah.
Kind of always was, right?
But the purpose is incomplete when you're only half of it, the sperm or the egg.
The completion concept is that the combination creates the individual.
Oh, the combination would...
Maybe there's something magical that happens then when they get together.
Yeah.
A couple more, then we'll let you go to work.
Where is it here?
I lost the...
Oh, no, I didn't.
I got it.
I get so behind on these.
After my second COVID jab, wow, I developed insomnia, muscle spasms, inflammation.
The symptoms become even worse during stress and before my period.
Could this be an autoimmune condition connected with histamine or estrogen?
Any remedies that I could do to help me get through this?
Wow.
Yeah.
The inflammatory processes are triggered purposely by the vaccine, and they overlap with the
problem, whatever inflammatory problem you might have been having is going to get worse
when it's activated.
The beneficial effects of aspirin and progesterone and vitamin D, all of the anti-inflammatory
things are going to be more important following the vaccine.
So the aspirin really, you're such a...
You mentioned so often, Dr. Peat, on these shows over these years.
So aspirin, is it more than a symptomatic thing like getting rid of a headache?
It is really anti-inflammatory?
Oh, yeah.
It gets right in at the basis of correcting probably 10 or 20 known mechanisms that are
interrupting stress-induced processes with inflammation.
Interesting.
And is there a downside of somebody wanting to take it every day?
I mean, is that okay?
Eventually it could cause a vitamin K deficiency.
So if you're going to be taking big doses for a long time, you should eat aged cheeses,
some liver, cooked kale and broccoli and so on.
Yeah, all the good stuff.
So when you say big doses, is big doses more than just two 300 milligram bears?
No, that's a good dose.
That's a good dose?
Yeah.
But for cancer and arthritis, people often take much bigger doses.
Do they?
Yeah.
I mean, can you just do, if people wanted to do it, just the old bear aspirin or does
it have stuff in there you don't want?
Yeah.
You can get pure USP aspirin for 15 or 20 dollars a pound.
A pound?
In pure crystalline form.
And then you can figure out how many milligrams that is and just take it, huh?
Yeah, like an eighth of a teaspoon or so.
And then getting this, it helps the body, it could help the body if I understand you,
what you're saying, Dr. Peat, could help the body to heal a lot of different things
if the inflammation goes down, right?
Yeah.
A lot of our excess inflammation comes from eating the polyunsaturated fats.
The old poofers.
One year ago, writes Martin, I developed Peyronie's disease.
Is there a way with diet or protocol to reduce it?
Yeah, vitamin K.
Vitamin K.
Or vitamin E, I mean.
Okay.
And anti-estrogens, progesterone and thyroid and vitamin A. But vitamin E in particular
helps the aspirin and progesterone to reduce the fiber formation.
Roger writes in, the other night, it was actually morning, about two or three o'clock, I had
the most incredible painful cramp in my left calf.
And it was terrible and it took a long time for it to go away and now two days later it
still hurts.
What could be the underlying cause, Dr. Peat, of why this happened and how I can prevent
it again?
It was very painful.
Wow.
What is that?
A lot of things can start it.
The first aid is usually getting your sodium, magnesium, calcium, potassium in balance and
a spoonful of baking soda and about half a glass of water is a way to calm things by
a quick...
Oh, right there during the time, just boom.
Yeah.
And on the other thing, we got the sodium, potassium, calcium, that whole thing.
How do we get that in balance?
How does that work?
Talk to us a little bit about that.
Eating too much meat, for example, with high phosphate content, that increases the parathyroid
hormone and creates a loss of energy at all levels.
The parathyroid hormone blocks mitochondrial function and that lowers cell energy and cell
energy is what keeps the internal electrolyte balance.
Does chicken have that high phosphorus as well as beef?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, it does?
Fish?
No?
Not fish?
Yep.
Fish too?
So just overall, too much protein, that could be a cause of that for this fellow?
Yeah.
Wow.
Okay, finally, a little personal thing I just wanted to ask you about, but I think people
will find it interesting.
I saw a graph the other day on the news, you know, how they're kind of really promoting
the idea of nuclear war, you know, Russia and all of that.
So they had this graph, this big graph, and it was all the 10 largest nuclear explosions
that we've had in our country, in the world, or I think in the world.
So I look on this graph and I see, whoa, in 1952, it says a 100 kiloton nuclear explosion
was on Johnston Island in 1952.
And it sparked my interest because, Dr. Peat, I was on Johnston Island 15 years later, for
a year and a half, on Armed Forces Radio in the South Pacific.
So how is it possible that I was on a place that a nuclear explosion 15 years ago, if
this nuclear radiation lasts for 100 years or whatever they say, and I've never had any
effects from it?
The worst effects are during the first year after the explosion, and the longer life isotopes
produce less harmful radiation.
So this whole idea that the Earth will be damaged for the 100 years or something, God
forbid that they ever did some nukes, it's not true.
Well, when you explode a lot of them...
I guess you can explode a lot of them, yeah.
Most of the radiation, long-lasting contamination from that explosion is elsewhere around the
Northern Hemisphere.
Oh, it's spread around.
Yeah.
It just didn't stay on the island.
And so if you just, no matter where you explode them, it's going to add to the long-lasting
background radiation.
And if you extrapolate to a thousand bombs going off in dirty situations...
I see.
...stirring up lots of smoke and dust, that's where you're risking exterminating life.
So in the old, or in the proverbial conventional nuclear war when everybody's bombing everybody,
that could really be a problem.
Yeah.
Even insects would risk being extincted.
Oh, very interesting.
Well, Dr. Ray Peat, it's always an honor to have you.
Thanks for coming on the show.
And your website is rayPeat.com, right?
RayPeat.com?
Mm-hmm.
RayPeat.com and Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com, rayPeatsnewsletter@gmail.com.
You have about, what, four times a year now that you put that up.
People want to join up.
Okay, thanks.
You take care of yourself, sir.
Thank you for your time.
Appreciate it.
All right.
It's an honor.
A good guy, huh?
Yeah, it's a real deal.
I used to talk to somebody that actually kind of, sort of knows what they're talking about.
More than kind of, sort of.
So that's why I didn't get fried on Johnson Island 50 years ago, because it just...
Yeah, I saw that chart.
It was crazy.
In 1952, 100 kilothousand, I don't know what it was, big one, 15 years later, they say,
"Patrick, you want to go there and play records on Johnson?"
"Oh, sure.
I'll do that.
No problem."
But I, you know, I never felt anything out there.
Somebody says, "Soul enters the fetus at the fourth or fifth month when quickening is felt.
That's the sign soul entering."
Yeah, maybe.
I don't know where you got that, but...
Could be.
A lot of viewpoints on this.
I think soul goes back and forth as well.
Yeah, you know, the whole abortion thing is such a personal and unique and, you know,
it's just above my pay grade to get involved in that at all.
You know, people need to do what they're going to do, and between you and God and the soul
that's around and work that one out yourself.
I don't have a dog in that fight.
You know what I mean?
No, no.
I know a wild old gypsy guy years ago, and he could see auras.
He really could see them.
And he told me that he would work with some pregnant people, and he could see the little
aura of the soul sometimes and other times not.
And his conjecture was that soul is always going back and forth into the other realities,
just like we do today.
And when we go to sleep, when our body goes to sleep, we leave the body and we dream.
That's what's going on, folks.
It's not the mind spitting out Jungian, Freudian.
These are real experiences in the other realities, and we call them dreams.
And it's no different than this dream here, is it?
Same thing.
This is a dream, that's a dream, it's all a dream.
So it's a good thing to learn how to remember your dreams, because you're going to learn
a lot.
All right, kids, I will see you tomorrow.
Adam Bergstrom is going to be here.
Adam told us that the California New Salini people told him that they were going to turn
off his electricity Wednesday when he was scheduled to be on the show.
So I said, "Okay, you just come on the show now, Tuesday.
There's always a way."
Quick reminder, we have a 20% discount on elk velvet that I'm going to be ordering
right now while the sale is on.
It's called Strong20, it's a promo code with Sir Thrival.
Elk velvet, wonderful source of collagen, all kinds of growth factors.
It keeps you young and snappy for a long time.
Help.
Hell helps.
So I love you.
Thank you for your support.
You're doing great.
No matter what anybody says, don't listen to anybody if they tell you you're not doing
great because you are, because only silly humans judge you and me, not God.
So I love you.
Thank you.
May the blessings be.
See you tomorrow.
From the Hill Country in Texas, this is one Radionetwork.com.
[music]
[BLANK_AUDIO]